Initial tutorial rewrite for GlobusApp (#1145)
globus/globus-sdk-python: docs/user_guide/getting_started/minimal_script.rst

.. currentmodule:: globus_sdk

.. _minimal_script_tutorial:

Creating A Minimal Script
=========================

This is a basic tutorial in the use of the Globus SDK.

You can jump right in by using the ``CLIENT_ID`` seen in the example code blocks below!
That is the ID of the tutorial client, which lets you get started quickly and easily.

When you are ready to create your own application, follow :ref:`the tutorial on

> registering a Native App <tutorial_register_app>` and use its ``CLIENT_ID`` in

Reviewer: I would inherit the name of the document as the link text rather than writing a a custom one.
It flows nicely enough in this sentence and helps codify in the users mind the name as a thing they can go back to.

:ref:`example scripts <minimal_script_complete_examples>` at the end before reviewing
the doc.

Define your App Object
----------------------

Accessing Globus APIs as a user requires that you login to your new app and get
it tokens, credentials providing access the service.

The SDK provides a construct which represents an application. A
:class:`GlobusApp` is an object which can respond to requests for new or
existing tokens and store those tokens (by default, in ``~/.globus/app/``).

:class:`UserApp` is the type of :class:`GlobusApp` used for human user,
login-driven scenarios -- this is always the right type of application object
to use when you want to interact with services using your own account.

Start by defining an application object using :class:`UserApp`:

.. code-block:: python

    import globus_sdk

    # this is the tutorial client ID
    # replace this string with your ID for production use
    CLIENT_ID = "61338d24-54d5-408f-a10d-66c06b59f6d2"

    # create your app
    my_app = globus_sdk.UserApp("my-user-app", client_id=CLIENT_ID)

.. note::

    The default behavior for a :class:`UserApp` is to do a CLI-based login flow.

>     This behavior can be disabled or customized in numerous ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    This behavior, and more, can be disabled or customized in numerous ways.
```

    For the full menu of options, look at the documentation about :ref:`Using a
    GlobusApp! <using_globus_app>`

Access the APIs via Clients
---------------------------

Once you have an app defined, you can use it with client objects to access
various Globus APIs.

> When you attempt to interact with a service, the app will automatically prompt
> you to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you attempt to interact with a service using an app-bound service client, the app will
automatically prompt your user to login if valid credentials are unavailable.
```

Author: Mostly :+1: , but I prefer "prompt you to login" over "prompt your user", since the expected usage in this guide is that you're writing a script for your own use.

Start by defining the client object:

.. code-block:: python

    groups_client = globus_sdk.GroupsClient(app=my_app)

And now you can use it to perform some simple interaction, like listing
your groups:

.. code-block:: python

    # print in CSV format
    # ('name' could actually have commas in it, so it is quoted)
    print("ID,Name,Roles")
    for group in groups_client.get_my_groups():
        roles = "|".join({m["role"] for m in group["my_memberships"]})
        print(",".join([group["id"], f'"{group["name"]}"', roles]))

> When ``groups_client.get_my_groups()`` runs in the example above, the SDK
> will prompt you to login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When ``groups_client.get_my_groups()`` runs in the example above, the SDK
prompts the user to login.
```

Author: Per above, I disagree with this change. The target user is the reader of the doc. Simplifying the model to "you write the code, you login" helps keep the scope tighter.

"You write the code, they login" can be probably be served by identical code, but it's a different target use case.
